The Project Gutenberg eBook of Puella mea, by E. E. Cummings

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Puella mea

Author: E. E. Cummings

Artists: Paul Klee
         Pablo Picasso
         Amedeo Modigliani
         Kurt Roesch

Release Date: February 12, 2022 [eBook #67384]

Language: English

Produced by: Charlene Taylor, Linda Cantoni, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PUELLA MEA ***





[Transcriber's Note: Idiosyncrasies of spelling, punctuation, and
capitalization have been retained as they appear in the original.]




[Illustration]

PUELLA MEA


BY E.E. CUMMINGS

[Illustration]


COPYRIGHT MCMXXIII BY E E CUMMINGS PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA


[Illustration]

    Harun Omar and Master Hafiz
    keep your dead beautiful ladies.
    Mine is a little lovelier
    than any of your ladies were.

    In her perfectest array
    my lady, moving in the day,
    is a little stranger thing
    than crisp Sheba with her king
    in the morning wandering.

[Illustration]

        Through the young and awkward hours
    my lady perfectly moving,
    through the new world scarce astir
    my fragile lady wandering
    in whose perishable poise
    is the mystery of Spring
    (with her beauty more than snow
    dexterous and fugitive
    my very frail lady drifting
    distinctly, moving like a myth
    in the uncertain morning, with
    April feet like sudden flowers

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    and all her body filled with May)
    —moving in the unskilful day
    my lady utterly alive,
    to me is a more curious thing
    (a thing more nimble and complete)
    than ever to Judea’s king
    were the shapely sharp cunning
    and withal delirious feet
    of the Princess Salome
    carefully dancing in the noise
    of Herod’s silence, long ago.

    If she a little turn her head
    i know that i am wholly dead:
    nor ever did on such a throat
    the lips of Tristram slowly dote,
    La beale Isoud whose leman was.
    And if my lady look at me
    (with her eyes which like two elves
    incredibly amuse themselves)
    with a look of færie,
    perhaps a little suddenly
    (as sometimes the improbable
    beauty of my lady will)
    —at her glance my spirit shies
    rearing (as in the miracle
    of a lady who had eyes
    which the king’s horses might not kill.)

[Illustration]

        But should my lady smile, it were
    a flower of so pure surprise
    (it were so very new a flower,
    a flower so frail, a flower so glad)
    as trembling used to yield with dew
    when the world was young and new
    (a flower such as the world had
    in Springtime when the world was mad
    and Launcelot spoke to Guenever,
    a flower which most heavy hung
    with silence when the world was young
    and Diarmid looked in Grania’s eyes.)
        But should my lady’s beauty play
    at not speaking (somtimes as
    it will) the silence of her face
    doth immediately make
    in my heart so great a noise,
    as in the sharp and thirsty blood
    of Paris would not all the Troys
    of Helen’s beauty: never did
    Lord Jason (in impossible things
    victorious impossibly)
    so wholly burn, to undertake
    Medea’s rescuing eyes; nor he
    when swooned the white egyptian day
    who with Egypt’s body lay.

[Illustration]

    Lovely as those ladies were
    mine is a little lovelier.

    And if she speak in her frail way,
    it is wholly to bewitch
    my smallest thought with a most swift
    radiance wherein slowly drift
    murmurous things divinely bright;
    it is foolingly to smite
    my spirit with the lithe free twitch
    of scintillant space, with the cool writhe
    of gloom truly which syncopate
    some sunbeam’s skilful fingerings;
    it is utterly to lull
    with foliate inscrutable
    sweetness my soul obedient;
    it is to stroke my being with
    numbing forests frolicsome,
    fleetly mystical, aroam
    with keen creatures of idiom
    (beings alert and innocent
    very deftly upon which
    indolent miracles impinge)
    —it is distinctly to confute
    my reason with the deep caress
    of every most shy thing and mute,
    it is to quell me with the twinge
    of all living intense things.

        Never my soul so fortunate
    is (past the luck of all dead men
    and loving) as invisibly when
    upon her palpable solitude
    a furtive occult fragrance steals,
    a gesture of immaculate
    perfume—whereby (with fear aglow)
    my soul is wont wholly to know
    the poignant instantaneous fern
    whose scrupulous enchanted fronds
    toward all things intrinsic yearn,
    the immanent subliminal
    fern of her delicious voice
    (of her voice which always dwells
    beside the vivid magical
    impetuous and utter ponds
    of dream; and very secret food
    its leaves inimitable find
    beyond the white authentic springs,
    beyond the sweet instinctive wells,
    which make to flourish the minute
    spontaneous meadow of her mind)
    —the vocal fern, always which feels
    the keen ecstatic actual tread
    (and thereto perfectly responds)
    of all things exquisite and dead,
    all living things and beautiful.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    (Caliph and king their ladies had
    to love them and to make them glad,
    when the world was young and mad,
    in the city of Bagdad—
    mine is a little lovelier
    than any of those ladies were.)

    Her body is most beauteous,
    being for all things amorous
    fashioned very curiously
    of roses and of ivory.
    The immaculate crisp head
    is such as only certain dead
    and careful painters love to use
    for their youngest angels (whose
    praising bodies in a row
    between slow glories fleetly go.)
    Upon a keen and lovely throat
    the strangeness of her face doth float,
    which in eyes and lips consists
    —always upon the mouth there trysts
    curvingly a fragile smile
    which like a flower lieth (while
    within the eyes is dimly heard
    a wistful and precarious bird.)

[Illustration]

    Springing from fragrant shoulders small,
    ardent, and perfectly withal
    smooth to stroke and sweet to see
    as a supple and young tree,
    her slim lascivious arms alight
    in skilful wrists which hint at flight
    —my lady’s very singular
    and slenderest hands moreover are
    (which as lilies smile and quail)
    of all things perfect the most frail.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    (Whoso rideth in the tale
    of Chaucer knoweth many a pair
    of companions blithe and fair;
    who to walk with Master Gower
    in Confessio doth prefer
    shall not lack for beauty there,
    nor he that will amaying go
    with my lord Boccaccio—
    whoso knocketh at the door
    of Marie and of Maleore
    findeth of ladies goodly store
    whose beauty did in nothing err.
    If to me there shall appear
    than a rose more sweetly known,
    more silently than a flower,
    my lady naked in her hair—
    i for those ladies nothing care
    nor any lady dead and gone.)

    Each tapering breast is firm and smooth
    that in a lovely fashion doth
    from my lady’s body grow;
    as morning may a lily know,
    her petaled flesh doth entertain
    the adroit blood’s mysterious skein
    (but like some passionate earlier
    flower, the snow will oft utter,
    whereof the year has perfect bliss—
    for each breast a blossom is,
    which being a little while caressed
    its fragrance makes the lover blest.)
    Her waist is a most tiny hinge
    of flesh, a winsome thing and strange;
    apt in my hand warmly to lie
    it is a throbbing neck whereby
    to grasp the belly’s ample vase
    (that urgent urn which doth amass
    for whoso drinks, a dizzier wine
    than should the grapes of heaven combine
    with earth’s madness)—’tis a gate
    unto a palace intricate
    (whereof the luscious pillars rise
    which are her large and shapely thighs)
    in whose dome the trembling bliss
    of a kingdom wholly is.

        Beneath her thighs such legs are seen
    as were the pride of the world’s queen:
    each is a verb, miraculous
    inflected oral devious,
    beneath the body’s breathing noun
    (moreover the delicious frown
    of the grave great sensual knees
    well might any monarch please.)
    Each ankle is divinely shy;
    as if for fear you would espy
    the little distinct foot (if whose
    very minuteness doth abuse
    reason, why then the artificer
    did most exquisitely err.)

[Illustration]

    When the world was like a song
    heard behind a golden door,
    poet and sage and caliph had
    to love them and to make them glad
    ladies with lithe eyes and long
    (when the world was like a flower
    Omar Hafiz and Harun
    loved their ladies in the moon)
    —fashioned very curiously
    of roses and of ivory
    if naked she appear to me
    my flesh is an enchanted tree;
    with her lips’ most frail parting
    my body hears the cry of Spring,
    and with their frailest syllable
    its leaves go crisp with miracle.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    Love!—maker of my lady,
    in that alway beyond this
    poem or any poem she
    of whose body words are afraid
    perfectly beautiful is,
    forgive these words which i have made.
    And never boast your dead beauties,
    you greatest lovers in the world!
    who with Grania strangely fled,
    who with Egypt went to bed,
    whom white-thighed Semiramis
    put up her mouth to wholly kiss—
    never boast your dead beauties,
    mine being unto me sweeter
    (of whose shy delicious glance
    things which never more shall be,
    perfect things of færie,
    are intense inhabitants;
    in whose warm superlative
    body do distinctly live
    all sweet cities passed away—
    in her flesh at break of day
    are the smells of Nineveh,
    in her eyes when day is gone
    are the cries of Babylon.)
    Diarmid Paris and Solomon,
    Omar Harun and Master Hafiz,
    to me your ladies are all one—
    keep your dead beautiful ladies.

[Illustration]

    Eater of all things lovely—Time!
    upon whose watering lips the world
    poises a moment (futile, proud,
    a costly morsel of sweet tears)
    gesticulates, and disappears—
    of all dainties which do crowd
    gaily upon oblivion
    sweeter than any there is one;
    to touch it is the fear of rhyme—
    in life’s very fragile hour
    (when the world was like a tale
    made of laughter and of dew,
    was a flight, a flower, a flame,
    was a tendril fleetly curled
    upon frailness) used to stroll
    (very slowly) one or two
    ladies like flowers made,
    softly used to wholly move
    slender ladies made of dream
    (in the lazy world and new
    sweetly used to laugh and love
    ladies with crisp eyes and frail,
    in the city of Bagdad.)

    Keep your dead beautiful ladies
    Harun Omar and Master Hafiz.


[Illustration]

This edition of E.E. Cummings’ Puella Mea with reproductions of
drawings and paintings by Klee is made possible through the kind
permission of Curt Valentin of Buchholz Gallery. The Modigliani drawing
is used by the courtesy of his publishers, in Milan, Italy. For the
drawing by Picasso thanks are due to Mary Callery, who consented to its
use. Kurt Roesch contributed his drawing which is the only illustration
expressly made for this book when it was decided to have work by other
modern masters in addition to the one drawing by the author himself,
which appears on the first text page of his poem.


S.A. JACOBS, THE GOLDEN EAGLE PRESS




*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PUELLA MEA ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
